I want to specify the functional correctness of snapshot restoration in the following production function:

In openvmm/openvmm_core/src/worker/dispatch.rs:

InitializedVm::load(
    self,
    saved_state: Option<SavedState>,
    client_notify_send: mesh::Sender<HaltReason>,
    restore_time: Option<(Duration, u64, Option<u64>)>,
    restore_vp_count: Option<u32>,
) -> Result<LoadedVm, anyhow::Error>

Focus on the snapshot-restoration branch, where saved_state is Some. The boundary is successful return before guest execution, not subsequent guest repair or external readiness.

The specification has two main parts:

1. How to abstract the snapshot inputs and the actual VM resources.
2. What preconditions and postconditions this production function should have.

HOW TO ABSTRACT THE KEY DATA STRUCTURES

Define a common logical VM state describing guest memory contents, per-virtual-processor state, and device state relevant to restoration. Include the machine configuration and component identities needed to interpret that state. Hide host addresses, file-descriptor numbers, and task-management details, but do not omit information merely because it is difficult to model.

Define a snapshot view that interprets the saved artifacts as this logical state. This requires interpreting the serialized component states and mapping memory-file offsets to guest physical addresses. Use smaller helper spec functions rather than one gigantic function.

The production load function receives prepared inputs rather than a snapshot directory. Connect its actual SavedState and the prepared memory backing in self to the snapshot view through explicit input contracts. SavedState alone does not contain the entire snapshot.

Define a view or representation relation for the actual returned LoadedVm and its underlying resources. For example, its logical RAM must describe the bytes in its real guest-memory backing, and its logical CPU and device states must correspond to the actual resources. Do not substitute an independently populated record of "observed state" for this connection.

For externally implemented OS or hypervisor resources, explicit abstract resource views and API contracts may be necessary. However, the interpretation logic implemented within this repository should be defined, not hidden behind an unconstrained uninterpreted function.

HOW TO SPECIFY THE PRECONDITIONS AND POSTCONDITIONS

Once these views are defined, the main success property is straightforward:

Given valid, compatible snapshot inputs and correctly prepared resources, if load returns successfully, the returned VM must represent the state described by the snapshot, subject only to explicitly specified restore adjustments.

Define validity and compatibility from the actual callers and supported configurations. Do not strengthen the preconditions merely to exclude difficult cases.

Specify CPU selection by stable VP identity and the actual instantiation rules. For deferred device restoration, require preservation of the correct pending content and application before operations that depend on it. Deferred state must not disappear from the abstraction.

Specify permitted time adjustments and other differences explicitly, preserving unaffected state. If external timing or nondeterminism affects the result, use a constrained restore relation with clearly identified environment inputs rather than forcing literal equality or allowing arbitrary differences.

Specify that partial restoration does not permit premature guest execution. On failure, state the required non-publication and cleanup obligations without assuming transactional rollback.

These contracts must apply to the real production load function and its actual inputs and returned resources. Helper specifications may live elsewhere, but a separate model whose own records agree is not a substitute. Defining this specification and proving that the implementation satisfies it are separate tasks.
